# Portfolio
Please watch a description and demo of this simulation here: https://youtu.be/3ZiVgZmFrBs

	The purpose of this project is to train AI to survive in a Darwinian environment through a process called neuroevolution.  Much like how Google’s AlphaZero and AlphaGo were trained, the AI are not given direct strategic knowledge of how to survive but instead compete amongst each other and learn how to play on their own. This makes it possible for the AI to find novel strategies and potentially play better than even the best human players. 
	The environment spawns with creatures and little specs of food. Each creature’s behavior is controlled by a 21 neuron neural network. Each step, the creature evaluates each object nearby. The creature knows how close the object is, whether it is moving towards or away from it, whether it can eat the object, whether the object can eat it, in which direction the object is, how large the object is, and whether they can mate with the object. The creature also knows whether they themselves are male or female and how large they are. They output of the neural network is which direction to move, whether to sprint or not and how high of a priority the action is. Sprinting allows the creature to spend twice as much energy to move 50% faster. The creature then performs the action with the highest priority.
	Neural networks are most typically trained using a process called error back propagation. However, this is only possible with labeled training data. Neuroevolution, in contrast, is an unsupervised learning method where the weights of the synapses are set based on inherited genes. Each neuron has a homologous pair of genes coding for the weights of synapses leading into the neuron. One inherited from each parent. The creatures go through a process of meiosis and genetic recombination mimicking what occurs in nature. The synapse weights also have a small chance of randomly mutated upon reproduction. The creatures then compete amongst themselves causing least fit members of the species die off and the strongest to proliferate, ensuring that the AI will gradually get better the longer the simulation runs.  
	The creatures have three distinct goals that they need to manage in order to thrive: finding food, avoiding predators, and reproducing.  When first running the simulation the creatures are very naive and wander around aimlessly. Naturally most of them die of starvation.  Once the creatures are sufficient at finding food, they will begin to hunt each other. This launches an arms race between predator and prey, each one trying to outmaneuver the other. 
	I hope this video has sufficiently demonstrated neuroevolution as a powerful tool for training AI. Although I used this technique to train the AI to play a simple game the fundamentals can be abstracted to many different real world challenges.

